On the basis of the ridge and oy you have been
shortlisted for the interview they
asked me a question about that sensor and I went after revising the same
because didi
must have told me to read it, I had all the questions of
DSA in HP  I don't remember a single question
that came out of that alpha bath whatever I had
inside him A to Z questions
that
high aven and welcome to college and today we are
going to talk about how can you start
your tech placement preparation with us  All of
these companies that you see behind me these are the
companies where our students are currently placed
and are doing their internships even if
we talk about top product based companies in India
like
thousands of our students getting place
in these companies as per my best knowledge  These are
one of the highest numbers when we talk
about Indian tech placements with online
preparation So whenever we talk about Indian tech
placements there are three
things which  We have to learn as a student, the
first thing that comes in this is development
because in majority of the tech companies, we have to go inside and do
Aventura development and
development is especially important if we are
coming from a tier three background where as
a student we have to develop our core skills  It
is very important to work on it or if
we want to go ahead and
apply it in startups the second thing that we
need to learn are data structures
and algorithms which are specially
important for product based companies
like
google 3 things that we need to focus on  R
quant and aptitude skills which are important for our
service based companies like TCS, Phosys,
Wipo, these are one of
the largest recruiters of software
engineers in India and for fintech
firms like Goldman Sachs,
GP Morgan, now these three things are very important for
us.  We have to learn this for Indian
placements specially if we want to
target different types of companies
but majority of us
students are already  Whether we are coming from B.Tech or BCA background
or we are already
graduates and working professionals in the
tech industry, then we all know that the
curriculum covered in college is
compared to the industry at the
time of placement and at the time of internship in the
companies  They come to us and ask us that
there is a major gap between these two and this
is the feedback that we got from our students over the years,
after which we designed this unique
solution which is called Sigma Sigma is that
unique solution in which we
develop DSA and Quant Aptitude  All
three things come together on a single platform
and Sigma has
solutions to so many problems of students which are hardly available anywhere else
in terms of development and in terms
of DSA so today we are going to launch the
new batch of  Sigma which is Sigma 6.0
with a major upgrade this is such an important
upgrade which is going to solve a very major
problem of the students to be honest
a very big team is going to be involved in this
Which was very difficult to make but
finally there is something that is
sig.bf
its classes will start from 7th January
2025 for all those students who are
dedicatedly waiting for sigma there is
going to be an early bird offer which is going to be there
next  On the third day i.e. 25th December
till 9:00 pm the link for the batch is in the
description box so we will talk about
Sigma in detail Sigma is that solution in
which first of all we will
cover our mind in web development which is
[ __ ] DB Express Re JS
And Note As This Is One Of The Most Popular
Stacks Out There In Which Majority Of The
Jobs Are Available After That For The Next
Four Months We Are Going To Cover Data
Structures And Algorithms In Which
First We Will Cover Our Java Fundamentals
Then  You are going to have a good grip on your DSA
and then we will cover quant and
aptitude in detail now the first question which
comes from many students is  Are you
eligible for Sigma 6?
Basically Sigma 6.0 is for you if you are
somewhat dedicatedly prepared for your tech
placements and tech internships specially if
you want to target product based
companies if we are coming from B.Tech M.Tech background
or if we are coming from BCMC background
we can prepare for our placement from sigma 6
If we are some 3rd year
and 4th year students who are next year students going to
sit for their on campus and off campus internships and placements And
If we are
sambalpuri first year student who is going to appear for their on campus and off campus internships and placements
A fresher wants to start his preparation.
We have already decided a goal for ourselves
that we want to enter the tech sector
and we want to
prepare for software engineering
places and internships. If we talk about
the timeline of the batch then the batch
Within the initial five months
from January to 2018, we are going to
build a good grip on our churn stack. This
is the five-month period in which  We will
cover our entire MERN stack and will be
creating many minor and major projects. After that, from May end
to July, we will focus on our quant aptitude.
Plus, here
we will have created many minor and one major project.
We will get access to five major projects of some more additional projects
where we
can also do project based learning after completing our
mind stack here our
DSA preparation will start parallelly from June which will
last for four months so by the end of September  By then
we will also complete our DSA and
August 2025 is basically that time when
companies start coming for placements and internships, so currently
if we are a second year student, then
next year in the third year, the
companies that will come to us  They will
start coming for internship from August. If we are third year
students now, then next year
companies will start coming for placement from August 2025.
So this is the timeline that
we are going to follow for all those
students who are coming in August next year.  Want to sit for the
placement and internship season after 2025 September October
Now let's
talk about our web development curriculum in
which we will cover all our
fundamentals in which
we cover a lot of different concepts like
authentication, authorization, error handling,
redux, redux  Toolkit
After covering all these important things, we will
get access to a lot of major
projects including our Airbnb
project and our Jaroda
project in which we will learn how to
integrate stock pricing and buy and
sell options into our websites.  There will be four GPT
projects in which we will learn about
Open AI API integration We will have
LinkedIn in which we will learn to build full stack social
media apps
Git Hub which is one of the most unique
projects in which we will learn to create our own version
control  There must be a Zoom
project in which we will learn about live
streaming, how to implement live
streaming and how to include that in our
own project, so all of this  Such
are our projects which will improve our project
based learning more
and will also teach us many new concepts
and along with this in Sigma 6.0 there
is going to be an additional module
for development in this module we have
covered the concepts of advanced development  We have
done this which can help you beyond the fresher level as a
working professional
in which we are going to cover Docker and
containerization, we will cover the concept of Kube necessities,
we will talk about CICD
pipelines and with project based
learnings we are going to learn  About web
socket, web RTC unit testing,
like our AW constructs which
we use for deployment like e2,
s3 buckets or our
amplify, all these
things are our new additional
modules which are part of Sigma  There will be new features in 6.0
in which we will
cover the advanced concepts of these additional important developments
and now it's time to reveal the major
upgrade in  Sigma 6.0 which is the live one
on one resume correction with mentor. Basically
we will have a mentor who is an experienced
software engineer who has experience in hiring in the industry.
We will sit live with him. He will check our resume
and we will have corrections in it.  This will be
done and customizations will be available to us.
This is not any tool or
online tool which basically checks our words and
corrects spelling mistakes.
This is a very next
level thing from that. Checking basic mistakes in it is
basic.  Making corrections is a must
but the customizations that happen at a different level of human level,
we will be getting those customizations here,
which customizations, basically if
we are able to understand then the arrangement of our resume should be done in
a different way
That resume should have different
things, we have to highlight them, if the student is from tier two, tier
three, tier four background then
he should highlight his resume  One has to
prepare in a different way if a
student is coming from a computer science background then
he has to
present things in a different way in his resume
as compared to a student who is coming from
a non computer science background if we look at
software engineering profiles  If we are
applying for a job then our resume should
look different than if we
are applying for startups then our resume should
look different. Along with this we will also teach
students who sit
for tech profiles in their on-campus placements.
If they
sit for data analytics and non-tech profiles,
then there will be a different kind of
resource that will work, now these different
things are there, this is a
customization that can be available only at the human level,
for which back  And it
requires a very big team
and doing this was very difficult
but we have done it. We have implemented it
for our students in Sigma 6.2. So this
is something that all those serious students  It
will help students who complete their batch with dedication,
who have already
made their projects, who have
already prepared for their DSC, so
this is something which is going to give an extra boost to our entire tech
placement preparation,
an extra help
Like we are going to have, so this is the
major upgrade which will be included and will be given to
all the students who are going to complete Sigma 6.0.
Along with this, if we
talk about the DSA syllabus, then
within DSA we will have dedicatedly covered 300  Plus
DSA questions with their video
explanation. Whether we are talking about fundamental
topics in DSA or
advanced DSA concepts like
heaps, hashes, graphs,
dynamic programming, segmentation
and all these concepts can be learnt in the lectures.  You will be
covering this with me so
we will have our theory lectures as well as
we will have a lot of DSA questions
which we will cover  And along with that
we will have 50 plus live practice
sessions with mentors who are currently working
in mainframe companies. Apart from DSA there are
many other things which are
important for placement but they are
apart from DSA and development
like  The additional thing for how to make your resume is
how off-campus placements work,
what are the differences between on-campus and off-campus,
what are the platforms that we should prefer in off-campus,
how  From where should I apply?
How to prepare for coding test?
On which platforms
how does competitive programming work?
How can we participate in programs like G-Sock?
How to improve our LinkedIn profile?  We have to
maintain it. If we
want to take reference for off campus, then how do references
work, how should we contact,
whom should we contact
for reference, all these important things
related to this are mentioned in our dedicated section.  There will be ship sessions
which you will be having with me plus
in terms of DSA there is a new company
sheet which we will be preparing which is also
something additional which is
going to come for the students of Sigma 6.0 basically this
is such an additional sheet which  Inside we will have
company wise different selected
questions of DSA and
not only questions here we will
also have video explanation of each question
for the solution so this is the sheet which
we have made dedicated to save your time
basically if  If there is a major product
based company like
Q Selection,
even after completing DSA through Google2 method,
we have pin
pointed each and every small important thing for revision and prepared solutions for all those things
and when so much  We will be reading all the things
in terms of development in terms of
DSA, definitely
many questions will come to us, many
doubts will come to us  There can be a problem
in which we get stuck, then we have a
dedicated team of teaching assistants i.e.
TS who will be there to help us, so
we can contact these TS anytime
whenever we have any doubt, whether it is
in development  Whether it comes under DSC or
Development DSA, we have
dedicated TS team for both and we will have
mentors for live DSA doubts and
practice, so our alternate day live sessions will be
with dedicated mang mentors 50
plus live sessions plus both Development and DSA  It is
not that we only give
theory lectures, with every lecture
we will have some assignment questions
and their solutions available, so that
apart from theoretical knowledge we are also
focusing on practical learning and doing
things on our own along with this  One of the
most important things which
is part of Sigma which is the third pillar of
Sigma that is Quant Aptitude in which
we talk about Quantitation  We will
focus on aptitude, reasoning and verbal ability.
This is such a preparation that it will
take us 10 to 15 days to complete our preparation.
This is especially
important if we are targeting service based companies like
TCS, Fosis, Wipro,
Mitsubishi or  Then if we are targeting our Fintech firms,
companies like Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, KPMG, then now
inside Quant Aptitude we will have
topic wise selected MCQ type
questions and
along with the questions of each topic we will have their video
solution video explanation
Along with this we have also prepared a
lot of sample tests and all these tests are
timer based tests in which
a timer will run and
we have to complete our test in a time bound manner
along with important note about the TCS
NQT test base basically TCS releases
different placement
dates every year for freshers  Around
40000 freshers are hired for this. This
is something about which generally North
Indian students do
not have much knowledge. But TCS is one of the
largest service based companies in India
and the freshers who are hired here are:  It is
not necessary that we will get 34 LPA
package, there
we have packages available in the range of 7 to 10 LPA,
so TCS
conducts a test called NQT for which
we have made dedicated sample papers
which we can use for NQT.  You can use for the preparation of quant test
also we have prepared
strategy for different quant bus companies
like tcs vipo phosys and whatever
we have online test for them now the
best and the most unique thing about this
quant and aptitude preparation is that this  The
preparation is not like the
Quant Aptitude for Government Jobs or Quant Aptitude for CAT Exam,
this
is a complete resource  We have specifically
designed this for students who are
coming from engineering and tech
background. Basically, as an engineering
student, our level in quant and logic is
already okay,
we just need to polish that level a bit more
for placement preparation.  As an
engineering student we are
not going to spend months on quant aptitude, we are going to
focus on our pressure preparation for tech placements within 10-15 days, along with this in
Sigma we are going to get a dedicated
Sigma community  In which we will be
able to interact with other fellow batchmates. Now
basically whenever we are preparing for placements,
especially in today's date if we are
preparing for off-campus placements,
then now our competition
comes to the national level.  Now we are not competing only with the students of our college,
our batch men,
we are competing with students from all the colleges from all over India,
so whenever we are a
part of any group or community, then
there we know  It is about the
level of other students,
what are the different opportunities
available in other colleges, where can we improve, so for
all these things and
for an extra level of consistency, we
will be creating a Sigma community
within which  We regularly get
notifications of new job updates that
where are the openings for different profiles
for different kinds of students, so
along with this there are also prizes that we
give out to our top students and for that
Along with this we hire good students for
DA internships now at last some
frequency
p0 there are so many things that are different
about sigma 6.0 our development is
preparation for DSA & Pt which
we hardly get anywhere else level up on top of that  To
do this,
new modules are being added for the development of advanced concepts.
Within DSA, we have a company-wise
sheet which will be added as an extra. Along with that,
we have mentors for men.  There
are mentors a lot of different things
are available plus this time we have
added correction edges in one on one live resume
so there are a lot of things which are
different next question is can I start
my preparation in the first year you should
start your  Preparation in first year: If
you have already decided that you want to
go into the tech sector,
software engineering is a very competitive
field today. The sooner you start, the
more are your chances to
secure a good internship and a good
placement.  There is one thing that you can do that you
can go and talk to your own college seniors
who are in their fourth year and
you can also learn from them about their
experience. 90 out of 100 seniors, no matter
which company they are working in, they are the same.  I will
say that maybe we should start a little earlier,
I am a beginner, the
basics will be covered, we will study everything from complete basics i.e.
complete fundamentals,
whether it is development or
DSA our aim is that as a
student you have not done any coding till date
so we will start from complete beginner level fundamentals
then we will gradually
raise our level and at the end we will be
covering all of the advanced concepts so
Whether you are a student who has
never done coding or we are a student
who has done a little bit of coding,
Sigma is for us because in it we are going to
cover our preparation from beginner level to complete advanced level
What All Tech Companies  Ask DS in hiring.
Our product based companies
ask for DSA on Google2 as well. DA is asked in Fintech
firms as well. There are many
startups who ask us for DA.
So DA is asked in all these companies.  It goes like this: can I
start my
preparation with development? Definitely you can
start your preparation with development and it is even
more important to start preparation from development if we are a student from a tier three
background because there
we get majority chances.
These terms of placements would be there, many times we will
get them in startups, many times
we will get them in different companies which will be
judging us on the basis of core skills,
so there, if we already have
development experience, there will already
be good projects on the ground.
We have skills which
we can apply to work anywhere, it
helps us a lot, what will be the mode
of communication, basically the mode of
communication will be the same as this session, in this
session there was a mix of Hindi and English, so the
same  Mode of communication will be
in aptitude, we will have choice,
we can study it in English as well
and we can study complete aptitude in English as
well, schedule of the lecture will be
alternate day schedule, i.e.
today our lecture will come and tomorrow we will have it  There is one day
off to complete all of the assignments, then
our lecture two is coming on day three,
so in this way there will be a
gap of one day between the two lectures, when we
talk about DSA  Because an extra
level of preparation is required in DSA, so there will be an
extra day off between the lectures in
which we will have live practice sessions
with the mang instructors and
finally to sum up our Sigma 6
classes are going to start on 7th January
2025  So now at the end as a teacher it is
my responsibility to tell you that
joining any batch or course does
not ensure our placement or internship.
Definitely if we join a batch then
we can get a sense of commitment and
dedication.  We can prepare with consistency,
we get a feeling of consistency, we
get some good resources to study
but our placement and internship will
happen only when we honor that commitment,
when we know that we have
come for consistency within the batch  So we will
prepare with consistency, we will sit and read all the
good resources that we are getting,
we will be
making projects for our development,
sitting and preparing for DSC,
doing extra practice,
completing it, then age  As a student, when
we honor our dedication, as a
student, when we know that we have to
work hard putting in towards our goals and
I am ready to do that, then
we get good placements and good
internships, then we
Think of joining Sigma 6.2 only if mentally as a
student we are ready to put in our hard work
and
show a good amount of dedication towards our goals
then once again for all the
interested students there is an early
Bird offer for Sigma 6 for the next three
days which is till 25th December 9 pm so the
link for Sigma 6 is
available in the description box below That's all for today see
you in
classes Fala Aa Ne S Sign Aaraas
[Music]